4/16/2024

currently stuck on how the tank will fire projectiles.

im thinking just have a bullet scene be added to the tree after press
fire button. does it matter where in the tree is added?
seems to work after i did that, can only add one bullet to the scene
"Can't add child 'bullet' to 'root', already has a parent 'root'"
do i need to use arrays?

lets try to get one to work how you want

wish i could visualize the tree at runtime 

have to pass in, the position of the tank to know were to instantiate this bullet 
could a marker3d node be usefull here?, seems its not updated with the tanks position
when moved. if i also have to add the movement code to the node then its pointless 
iho

ok this is not as easy as i thought it would be, maybe using the marker3d node
makes sense?
i can probably write a function that returns, the location of the barrel
at anypoint in time, but i would have to think a little.
I should do that instead of the marker3d right?

this is alot more difficult than expected but nothing i cant do.

ok, now i know how to instantiate() a scene
preload the node, then create instances and add them too the tree

placing them infront of the barrel with the correct, rotation + everything else
is probably easy right?

decided to make the bullets a spheare, dont have to worry about the bullet facing the correct way
if you know whta i mean

whenever i make a new 3d scene, make sure to always have it centered around the origin
this removes headaches later on

i want to spawn the ball, right after the barrel.
adding bullet_instance.position.y &.x is easy enough

the problem comes from .z
my guess its just more trigonometry
that is incorrect, the only things that is "easy" is .y

fix .x and .z, would have to think about it
how long is the distance between the origin point of the tank, and the barrel

4/18/2024

i decided i will try to fix bullets spawning at the end of barrel issue later,

how will i be building levels?

planning on having walls that the bullet can bounce from
guessing, first thought is to create a signal for a spefic wall
that would change the acceleration of depending on what side it hit it from

but i would need to code that for each wall that i will add to the game
very cumbersome, 
lets keep the score small for now. and as we progress and learn more, we add more

im thinking have base level template, which all levels will be composed of
then add individual walls scenes into each? still run into having 
to make individual signals for each wall.
also, how do i prevent the tank from just going thrue them? ray cast?

adding a cooldown timer for shotting was easy enough.
should i add a limit to ammo?

how will prevent the tank from just phasing thrue walls?
could i just change the parent node to get what i want?
maybe its the movement code that has to be changed?

so when i use the default script for a character body 3d node
and change the wall parent node to a static body, it does not phase thrue the 
wall, i really should learn all the node types and when to use them

also why did i not make the walls static body types?
makes sense for them to be static types, go change them

how will i recode the movement for tank, i dont think 
it will be very difficult.

dont like how i repeat the same collision box
for the static body wall, then for its child
area3d node, must be doing something wrong right?

just fiddled around with the tank movement code, and seemed i got lucky
its doing what it was about the same as before

dont know what to do about this error doe
character_tank.gd:32 @_physics_process(): The InputMap action "" does not exist

the tank will only move forward and backwards, cant go sideways
can i just ignore it?

to fix the issue with, the wall treating the tank
like a bullet when ever it rubbed against it the wrong way
use the collision mask thing

i should implement a healthbar that sits ontop of the tank
how will i do this?

figured if a bullet hits the tank then the bullet should 
be deleted, but since the bullet is still spawning at verytop
of tank, "its hitting itself", i really need to fix this 

i should look at adding particle effects to the game
it does not look too complicated

found a very simple solution for spawning bullet right outside of 
barrel, very simple no need for trig, i have thought of using a 
Marker3d node, but I did not realise i needed its global postion
and not its postion in the scene it belongs to.

whats next? tank health, tank dies

AI tank?

thought might as well add local multiplayer to play atleast locally on this machine with others
thanks to
https://www.gdquest.com/tutorial/godot/2d/local-multiplayer-input/
would have never occured to me. i should be more mindful of what variables 
make sense to be @exported. 
the fpc addon im using in 5night_inFIME also exports the controls input map thing
feel kinda dumb no figuring that out, but thats ok, study more

i should atleast add controller support, pretty sure it will be very different considering
a keyboard is very binary, but a joystick is not 

exporting the color enum is preety cool. How do i color this tank
thrue code? If you can do it thrue the IDE you must be able to do it thrue code

also have to fix tanks rubbing into each other counts as being shot by bullet
just use a different mask again? prob should fix the collision size again

WOW set up the different tank colors all thrue the 
node inspecter tab, THAT IS SO COOL, this makes things
so easy, what i wanted to do something more complex
than just change albedo color, how do i apply a camo?

dont like how things look, apply a shader?

very interesting, when i run game thrue the "hub"
and the games does not crash unlike when ran thrue editor
when the tanks ran into eachothe. 
also fixed issue by changing collision layer
to three. feel like im just running into solutions
by complete luck

setting up the walls for stage were easy because
a bullet can only hit it from one side change is 
acceleration in x or y accordingly but what about
an on the middle obsticle that could be hit from any side?
my guess is compose a mesh of mutilple area3d on each face?
will have to try it out, but affraid of them colliding with
each other and it acts buggy

should code a "level editor", have walls that i could resize in the editor
to make things easier, thought to simply change the value an individual
like its meshinstance3d, collisionshape3d, size property, but thats not a thing 
apperently? you can read docs
CollisionShape3D -> Shape3D 
get_shape()
set_shape()

should prob come back to this. lets just get the basics down for now

adding the collisions for, walls that cuold be hit from all sides feels 
like a mess. 

this is all mess and im not that far into this 

when bullets collided into eachother they should beed freed()

things to add
menu
controller support
AI
online multiplayer?
