4/16/2024

currently stuck on how the tank will fire projectiles.

im thinking just have a bullet scene be added to the tree after press
fire button. does it matter where in the tree is added?
seems to work after i did that, can only add one bullet to the scene
"Can't add child 'bullet' to 'root', already has a parent 'root'"
do i need to use arrays?

lets try to get one to work how you want

wish i could visualize the tree at runtime 

have to pass in, the position of the tank to know were to instantiate this bullet 
could a marker3d node be usefull here?, seems its not updated with the tanks position
when moved. if i also have to add the movement code to the node then its pointless 
iho

ok this is not as easy as i thought it would be, maybe using the marker3d node
makes sense?
i can probably write a function that returns, the location of the barrel
at anypoint in time, but i would have to think a little.
I should do that instead of the marker3d right?

this is alot more difficult than expected but nothing i cant do.

ok, now i know how to instantiate() a scene
preload the node, then create instances and add them too the tree

placing them infront of the barrel with the correct, rotation + everything else
is probably easy right?

decided to make the bullets a spheare, dont have to worry about the bullet facing the correct way
if you know whta i mean

whenever i make a new 3d scene, make sure to always have it centered around the origin
this removes headaches later on

i want to spawn the ball, right after the barrel.
adding bullet_instance.position.y &.x is easy enough

the problem comes from .z
my guess its just more trigonometry
that is incorrect, the only things that is "easy" is .y

fix .x and .z, would have to think about it
how long is the distance between the origin point of the tank, and the barrel

4/18/2024

i decided i will try to fix bullets spawning at the end of barrel issue later,

how will i be building levels?

planning on having walls that the bullet can bounce from
guessing, first thought is to create a signal for a spefic wall
that would change the acceleration of depending on what side it hit it from

but i would need to code that for each wall that i will add to the game
very cumbersome, 
lets keep the score small for now. and as we progress and learn more, we add more

im thinking have base level template, which all levels will be composed of
then add individual walls scenes into each? still run into having 
to make individual signals for each wall.
also, how do i prevent the tank from just going thrue them? ray cast?

adding a cooldown timer for shotting was easy enough.
should i add a limit to ammo?

how will prevent the tank from just phasing thrue walls?
could i just change the parent node to get what i want?
maybe its the movement code that has to be changed?

so when i use the default script for a character body 3d node
and change the wall parent node to a static body, it does not phase thrue the 
wall, i really should learn all the node types and when to use them

also why did i not make the walls static body types?
makes sense for them to be static types, go change them

how will i recode the movement for tank, i dont think 
it will be very difficult.

dont like how i repeat the same collision box
for the static body wall, then for its child
area3d node, must be doing something wrong right?

